0 - READ ME FIRST.md, before:

# About

The material for this  bootcamp is designed as a refresher course for 
student about to start Data Structures and Algorithms at CSUEB.  While the 
bootcamp does not cover all topics from the previous courses, it covers 
some of the most critical topics required to be successful in a Data
Structures and Algorithms course.

>
> **TLDR**
> If you want a refresher before Data Structures and Algorithms, you are in 
> the right place.
>

# Setting Up the IDE (Integrated Development Environment)

We highly recommend setting up your IDE prior to the bootcamp. There are two 
officially supported options for the IDE and one unsupported option:
1. CLion (Recommended if you are bringing your own laptop) - 
[**Clion Setup Guide**](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20CLion%20IDE%20(if%20bringing%20own%20laptop).md)
2. Visual Studio Code on Codespaces (Runs in a browser) - 
[**VS Code Setup Guide**](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20VS%20Code%20IDE%20on%20Codespaces%20(if%20you%20plan%20on%20using%20a%20lab%20computer).md)
3. Visual Studio Code ((Unsupported option, runs on local machine) - Guide 
   still under development

The material of this bootcamp can be run out of the box on JetBrain's IDE 
CLion and will be one of the supported platforms for this bootcamp. CLion is 
freely available for students and runs on Window, MacOS, and Linux.  If you 
plan on bringing your own laptop, we highly recommend setting up your laptop 
prior to coming to the bootcamp.

If you do not have a laptop during the bootcamp, it is possible to run a
cloud instance of Visual Studio Code using a GitHub feature called 
Codespaces.  If you plan on using this option, we suggest familiarising 
yourself with the coding workflow before coming to the bootcamp.

> **Notes:**
>
> Visual Studio Code can also be run locally on your computer rather than 
> on Codespaces additional setup of the toolchain (installing and 
> configuring CMake, a compiler, etc).  Visual Studio Code is cross-platform
> and can run on Windows, MacOS, and Linux. However, at the moment, we do not 
> have a guide written for the setup. 
> 
> Also note that Visual Studio Code is ***not*** the same as Visual Studio. 
> While it may be possible to use Visual Studio for the bootcamp material, we 
> currently do not have any documentation to set up the environment on the 
> Visual Studio IDE.

> **TLDR**
> 
> You can use whatever IDE you want, but you really should use either 
> [CLion](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20CLion%20IDE%20(if%20bringing%20own%20laptop).md)
> or 
> [VS Code on Codespaces](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20VS%20Code%20IDE%20on%20Codespaces%20(if%20you%20plan%20on%20using%20a%20lab%20computer).md)
> .  These are the officially supported IDE's for the bootcamp.

# GitHub

All the material for the workshop is hosted on GitHub. In order to use the 
material, you will need to create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/). 
You can use a personal or school email address for the account.

We assume that most students in the bootcamp have never used git version 
control before.  During the bootcamp we will demonstrate the basic git 
commands you will need.

Commit message:

Adding instructions for CLion IDE testing and started VS IDE testing instructions

0 - READ ME FIRST.md, after:

# About

The material for this  bootcamp is designed as a refresher course for 
student about to start Data Structures and Algorithms at CSUEB.  While the 
bootcamp does not cover all topics from the previous courses, it covers 
some of the most critical topics required to be successful in a Data
Structures and Algorithms course.

>
> **TLDR**
> If you want a refresher before Data Structures and Algorithms, you are in 
> the right place.
> 
> Before you come to the bootcamp you should
> 1. Create a [Bootcamp Repository](1%20-%20Create%20a%20Bootcamp%20Repository.md)
> 2. Setup one of the IDE options
> 3. Test the chosen IDE
>

# GitHub

All the material for the workshop is hosted on GitHub. In order to use the
material, you will need to create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/).
You can use a personal or school email address for the account.

We assume that most students in the bootcamp have never used git version
control before.  During the bootcamp we will demonstrate the basic git
commands you will need.

After setting up your GitHub account, you should create a 
[Bootcamp Repository](1%20-%20Create%20a%20Bootcamp%20Repository.md)

# Setting Up the IDE (Integrated Development Environment)

We highly recommend setting up your IDE prior to the bootcamp. There are two 
officially supported options for the IDE and one unsupported option:
1. CLion (Recommended if you are bringing your own laptop) - 
[**Clion Setup Guide**](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20CLion%20IDE%20(if%20bringing%20own%20laptop).md)
2. Visual Studio Code on Codespaces (Runs in a browser) - 
[**VS Code Setup Guide**](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20VS%20Code%20IDE%20on%20Codespaces%20(if%20you%20plan%20on%20using%20a%20lab%20computer).md)
3. Visual Studio Code ((Unsupported option, runs on local machine) - Guide 
   still under development

The material of this bootcamp can be run out of the box on JetBrain's IDE 
CLion and will be one of the supported platforms for this bootcamp. CLion is 
freely available for students and runs on Window, MacOS, and Linux.  If you 
plan on bringing your own laptop, we highly recommend setting up your laptop 
prior to coming to the bootcamp.

If you do not have a laptop during the bootcamp, it is possible to run a
cloud instance of Visual Studio Code using a GitHub feature called 
Codespaces.  If you plan on using this option, we suggest familiarising 
yourself with the coding workflow before coming to the bootcamp.

> **Notes:**
>
> Visual Studio Code can also be run locally on your computer rather than 
> on Codespaces additional setup of the toolchain (installing and 
> configuring CMake, a compiler, etc).  Visual Studio Code is cross-platform
> and can run on Windows, MacOS, and Linux. However, at the moment, we do not 
> have a guide written for the setup. 
> 
> Also note that Visual Studio Code is ***not*** the same as Visual Studio. 
> While it may be possible to use Visual Studio for the bootcamp material, we 
> currently do not have any documentation to set up the environment on the 
> Visual Studio IDE.

> **TLDR**
> 
> You can use whatever IDE you want, but you really should use either 
> [CLion](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20CLion%20IDE%20(if%20bringing%20own%20laptop).md)
> or 
> [VS Code on Codespaces](2%20-%20Setting%20up%20VS%20Code%20IDE%20on%20Codespaces%20(if%20you%20plan%20on%20using%20a%20lab%20computer).md)
> .  These are the officially supported IDE's for the bootcamp.

# Testing your IDE

After you configure your IDE, you should test your IDE to ensure your 
toolchain is working (you can compile and run code):
* [Testing the CLion IDE](3%20-%20Testing%20the%20CLion%20IDE.md)
* [Testing the VS Code IDE](3%20-%20Testing%20the%20VS%20Code%20IDE.md)
